Michael Hoefer: Mr. Math is. This is Dr. Hill for calling.
Michael Hoefer: Hey, pretty good. Can you turn on your camera please so we can
Lerone Matthis: Oh, sorry about that.
No foam.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, hey.
Michael Hoefer: Hey, so my name is Dr Hofer I'm a psychiatrist working with bright heart health, and I'm going to be doing your intake today.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: We're going to, we have about 30 to 40 minutes for us to talk, I'm going to ask you about your opioid use and also medical and psychiatric history. And then after that, we'll come up with a plan.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Could you start by telling me how you heard about bright heart health.
Lerone Matthis: Or
Lerone Matthis: Mental medical provider blue shoes.
Lerone Matthis: Okay, I called them and they say they are white horse.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool. Okay. And can you tell me what's bringing you into treatment today and how we can be helpful.
Lerone Matthis: Or wanted to
Lerone Matthis: Stop buying illegal strangers. And because I'm you know i'm i'm working now and I'm going to school and you know that is not as nice.
Lerone Matthis: not healthy. You're safe. Brian drove on the street.
Lerone Matthis: And I want to
Lerone Matthis: Change it morale. So I will take my family or my family's from doing this, you know, indifferent prison or something.
Lerone Matthis: Doing it and we, you know, killing myself, you know, so
Michael Hoefer: Sore yeah
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And it's even more as you mentioned, it's even more of a risk right now with all the coven 19 stuff and you know it's it's a there's a lot going on so
Michael Hoefer: Can you tell me a little bit about your opiate use
Michael Hoefer: You know when you first started what you use. And any problems, that's causing your life.
Lerone Matthis: Started maybe we gardens, where
Lerone Matthis: I had
Lerone Matthis: I had started I was
Lerone Matthis: I started really just with like a painkillers.
Lerone Matthis: Mike, it is a thing like that and then
Lerone Matthis: Gradually of did because it was cheaper to the bar St. Jerome
Lerone Matthis: Invite description fields and and I started selling drugs again a double my income.
Lerone Matthis: I end up going to prison.
Lerone Matthis: For five and a half years.
Lerone Matthis: selling heroin and
Lerone Matthis: At the same time, I was doing it and he was in prison and I never see. Stop. Stop.
Lerone Matthis: Feeling president. Oh.
Lerone Matthis: And now we're taking the risk in and now I'm out. And I know when to get my life together. I've been getting everything lined up, but I still got this overhanging issue of marijuana news in my
Lerone Matthis: Quitting because, I mean,
Lerone Matthis: The state. Now, in a word, I just started my first day of work you know you don't want to do this crazy withdrawals. I made I made
Lerone Matthis: I made it through, but
Lerone Matthis: Um, I just want to try it. Try to change.
Michael Hoefer: Great. Yeah. Well, that's, that's really, you've got a number of things that are are going really well and this and hopefully we can help you with the opiate use and and that'll make you know those school and your physical health, and the work go a lot better. What kind of job are you doing
Lerone Matthis: Right now I'm doing front of coaching services Safeway.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, cool. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And as far as your heroin use about how much are you using per day.
Lerone Matthis: For about a gram gram
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And do you inject it or do you smoke it.
Michael Hoefer: Norris you snort it
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Do you mix it it you just know that like you mix it in like a solution or something and then start it.
Lerone Matthis: Sometimes you have
Lerone Matthis: To dilute it
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, or war or something. Or I could just crushing in other make it into a powder story.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. And any history of injection drug use in the past.
Lerone Matthis: No, no, no.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, good. And have you ever overdosed on opiates to where you need to knock in
Lerone Matthis: No, I never did that.
Lerone Matthis: Momentum. That's good.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah cards in my bag.
Michael Hoefer: No problem.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, yeah. No, I never overdose or anything like that.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great. And
Michael Hoefer: We talked about, you know, legal issues. We talked about your, your physical health has an opiate use. You also mentioned your family just as far as them being worried about you or relationships as your opiate use affect your, your relationships at all.
Lerone Matthis: No, it hasn't yet.
Lerone Matthis: I'm good at hiding
Lerone Matthis: promo but he did when I was in prison, what they did.
Lerone Matthis: They didn't believe that I will their music only selling
Michael Hoefer: I see. Gotcha. So they don't know your family or the close ones you don't know about your heroin addiction or don't know. Yeah.
Lerone Matthis: Not to mention
Michael Hoefer: Okay, does anybody know or is that a thing that you kind of keep to yourself.
Lerone Matthis: Well, it's a few people that know but not really my family. I don't have a lot of family out here, grew up small not much family so
Lerone Matthis: Earlier in the day and I just
Lerone Matthis: I got a small circle of friends. So some of our friends. No, but not everybody. Gotcha. Everybody it. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever been on Suboxone before
Lerone Matthis: No, I haven't.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Have you ever even just tried taking it like from a friend or, you know, anything like that.
Lerone Matthis: Not, not having someone told me about it. But, you know, work. I felt like his word for try
Lerone Matthis: To try to see if the work is you know better than what I'm doing.
Michael Hoefer: Sure. Have you ever taken methadone before like in the liquid at a clinic or anything like that.
Lerone Matthis: No, I have
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And then there's another medications for opiate addiction that sometimes she will use called Naltrexone which is like can either be in a pill or a shot. Have you ever had that before.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever been in substance use treatment before. No. Okay, great. Well, this is your first time and welcome. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Aside from the opiates. So the heroin. Are you using any other drugs right now.
Lerone Matthis: Not only do the Jersey cigarette. Wait.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, how much do you smoke usually
Lerone Matthis: Many cigarettes a day.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and how about like in the not now, but in the past, have you ever been concerned or felt like you had a problem with any drugs, other than heroin.
Lerone Matthis: No.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, like alcohol or math or cocaine or
Michael Hoefer: benzo. Did you ever feel like you had any issues with those
Michael Hoefer: No, no. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever do you feel like, have you ever been diagnosed with any psychiatric issues or do you feel like you struggle with any mental health issues.
Lerone Matthis: No, I've never, I've never been diagnosed in psychic issues. I mean, I know I have a problem with the variety, but
Lerone Matthis: Also know will lead to my heroin addiction addiction to the mall worried
Lerone Matthis: And nervous about things. Well, it also, it also helped me to the black do you well.
Lerone Matthis: I know I might have a problem with that. I've never been diagnosed
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And so what is, what is your anxiety. Like, it sounds like you're a warrior, by nature, but what type of things do you worry about usually
Lerone Matthis: Everything family going back to jail, even though I haven't done anything
Lerone Matthis: I mean, it's so much so many things like you know I'm from originally, you know, worried about the police said
Lerone Matthis: You know, I mean, I'm always
Lerone Matthis: A modern society, especially about sharing. I'm always worried about film.
Lerone Matthis: That I'm on biggest issue. And I'm always geared feel afraid of selling and when I do fit fall apart, you know,
Lerone Matthis: So,
Lerone Matthis: You know when i when i when i when i don't seem to have enough for for
Lerone Matthis: Us for
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay. And does the anxiety ever get so bad, like you ever have anxiety so bad that you feel like your heart is going to explode or you're going crazy like a panic attack. Does that ever happen.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah.
Lerone Matthis: You know it happened where i where i was breathing Bradley and I you know I felt like I couldn't breathe and, you know, I think we come to a common down, you know, but
Lerone Matthis: I have had that, but
Lerone Matthis: Didn't go to a doctor. I haven't had coverage.
Michael Hoefer: For reason
Lerone Matthis: That's already there was no no way I could actually even don't care about anything that you have any way to do it.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay. And how are you, how do you do kind of, how do you do socially, are you, are you okay like talking to people. Are you self confidence.
Michael Hoefer: Or shy or things like that. Are you okay like interacting with people.
Lerone Matthis: Who are learning over trying
Lerone Matthis: To be more sociable, because you know I was homeless getting engaged.
Lerone Matthis: Almost at 14 and stuff so I lived on the street and I realized like, it took me a while to understand like for me to survive. I had to learn other skills.
Lerone Matthis: And me being an introvert. I couldn't be and so
Lerone Matthis: force myself to be more talkative in England do doing that because it's a survival skill. Now, and I am helped me in in right but I'm not comfortable with. But I make myself coaches.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Yeah. Gotcha. That makes sense.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and how about things like
Michael Hoefer: You know trauma in your life. Did you have, have you had a history of, you know, significant traumas like either as a young person or throughout your life. And those are usually things like physical abuse, sexual abuse or, you know, emotional abuse.
Lerone Matthis: Act, where I never, I never had any sexual abuse but you know I was
Lerone Matthis: I mean, I would live in Berkeley term I was 1314 living on the street so
Lerone Matthis: We do a lot of stuff.
Lerone Matthis: You know, to me,
Lerone Matthis: I don't know how to
Lerone Matthis: I had to deal with it in, you know, I made a lot of mistakes because I learned bad things from bad people.
Lerone Matthis: And and sometimes I'm not the trauma life lessons. Sometimes I'm confused with it.
Lerone Matthis: Sure, and don't know sometimes is this is in some of the bad things of things.
Lerone Matthis: affected me right or wrong because is
Lerone Matthis: Not good with people. What I'm, what I'm seeing or what was happening to me where I haven't learned from me. So I don't know. Sometimes I don't know if it's good or bad.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Do you ever
Michael Hoefer: You know sometimes when people have traumatic experiences they can have things like, do you ever have, like, Do you have like nightmares that all about the stuff that you've seen
Lerone Matthis: You have had nightmares about a lot of different things.
Lerone Matthis: In more recent schools is prison. So a lot of people dying so
Lerone Matthis: In prison. Yeah, so
Lerone Matthis: Right now, there's the ones I'm going to
Lerone Matthis: Me when it's dramatic going back and return it back.
Michael Hoefer: And you really, you know, it sounds like what your number one thing is you really want to your number top things is not going back to prison. That's like
Lerone Matthis: Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, and how about things like are you okay can you be in a big crowd of people like you know, can you be at a big crowd with a few hundred people and be okay.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah. Yeah. Can you tell me where I'm when I came home will be comfortable again with a loud noise and things like that.
Michael Hoefer: And now if you hear a loud noise. You do. Okay, you're not, you don't like have a hyper startle and things like that. Yeah.
Lerone Matthis: No, no, and then anymore. I did at first.
Lerone Matthis: It's taking me a while to get acclimated place.
Lerone Matthis: Where you know I have to
Lerone Matthis: I don't want to, I want to make changes.
Michael Hoefer: And do you feel like you can connect with people like do you feel like with friends or family, you're able to, you know, connect be you know either talk about emotion with them or be, you know, you know, connected with them. You feel like you're able to do that.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah for life. It would be
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. Great. And how about things like your, your anger levels, your frustration tolerance. How is that
Lerone Matthis: It's very hard.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Lerone Matthis: Great tell
Lerone Matthis: Me any coping coping skills.
Lerone Matthis: Because my fear return
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Lerone Matthis: Based on my my my anxiety in though I have to change things just to be this would be the
Lerone Matthis: Peace summit in my stress dance.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Okay.
Lerone Matthis: I'm afraid to make changes or
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. So one way the anxiety is somewhat protective and in some ways it's it's it's somewhat impairing it's like both sides of the coin.
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, absolutely.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever seen a psychiatrist or therapist in the past.
Michael Hoefer: No. No. Never. Okay. Have you ever been in, like, a psychiatric hospital or put on a or anything like that. No.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay. And have you ever taken a medication prescribed to you for anxiety or depression or anything like that.
Michael Hoefer: No, no. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And do you have any medical issues that we need to know about.
Lerone Matthis: No, no.
Michael Hoefer: None. Okay. And do you take any other medications or nutritional supplements or anything like that that we need to know about.
Lerone Matthis: Not a message.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, any history of any allergies to any medications. No.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever, you know, felt suicidal or had a suicide attempt in your life.
Lerone Matthis: No, no. Great.
Michael Hoefer: Do you have any current legal issues at all like probation, parole. Is there anything that you're still on.
Michael Hoefer: parole. Okay. And how's that going
Lerone Matthis: Going okay right now.
Lerone Matthis: Okay, you're aware
Lerone Matthis: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, cool.
Michael Hoefer: And anybody in your family with the history of you know that you know of depression, bipolar or schizophrenia or other serious mental illness.
Lerone Matthis: Not that I know.
Michael Hoefer: Okay about other people with substance use issues in the family.
Lerone Matthis: No, not that I know. I know.
Lerone Matthis: Only got like three three people I know my mom.
Lerone Matthis: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And and they don't. And they and they're not, they don't struggle with addiction.
Lerone Matthis: No, they don't know
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And just a little bit about your background. Where were you born and where did you grow up, mostly
Lerone Matthis: Born in Oakland bird group English
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. And how far along. Did you go in school.
Lerone Matthis: Graduate
Lerone Matthis: College colleges for a straw man. I mean sounds will say right now. During my bachelor's
Michael Hoefer: Excellent. And what are you studying
Lerone Matthis: Business Administration.
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool. All right, and
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever been married, have any children, anything like that.
Lerone Matthis: I have three kids never been married
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. And how are they doing
Lerone Matthis: Doing good.
Michael Hoefer: Do you have contact with them at all and
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, my man. He says,
Lerone Matthis: He stays with us his mother, my two daughters, then, how's it going
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. All right, and you live in, you live in Richmond, and we talked about school and work.
Michael Hoefer: All right. Well, those are the main questions. I need to ask you as far as doing the intake process. I appreciate you answering them all. I know it's a lot of questions.
Lerone Matthis: Do you have you
Michael Hoefer: Do you have any other questions for me or is there anything that I missed that you think is important for me to no
Lerone Matthis: No, no.
Lerone Matthis: No.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great. Alright, so. So next step. So certainly, in speaking to you. It's clear, you know, very clear to both of us that you have an opiate addiction, which we call an opiate use disorder.
Michael Hoefer: And there's three medications available that are approved by the FDA to treat that disorder. One is methadone. One is buprenorphine and one is Naltrexone
Michael Hoefer: I mean, I think for for you and for what we're talking about. It makes a lot of sense to try the medication buprenorphine, also known as Suboxone
Michael Hoefer: And and that's just because I mean a couple things. One, that's kind of considered by most people. The first line treatment, like if you've never been in treatment before. That's the usually the best one to start it has, you know, it's very safe. It has really good, kind of, it's very effective.
Michael Hoefer: And it's even more of a good thing. At this point, because
Michael Hoefer: With the coven 19 and the lockdown. It's something that we can just send to the pharmacy or you can take on your own, you know, at your house and keeps you from having to go to a clinic every day or things like that, which wouldn't be really safe right now.
Lerone Matthis: Right.
Michael Hoefer: So the way the medication works is it's not like other pills you don't if you swallow it, you only absorb about 10% of it. So you need to stick it under your tongue and let it dissolve.
Michael Hoefer: And so what we recommend you do is, you know, don't eat or drink anything about 15 minutes before you take it and then just stick it under your tongue and let it dissolve. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And the only thing tricky about the medication is when you started that first couple doses, you take of it. You have to wait till you're in moderate withdrawal from heroin.
Michael Hoefer: You just have to you have to wait for till you feel like basically till your model withdrawal to you're really kind of started to feel sick and you can't really take it anymore.
Michael Hoefer: That's when you take your first dose. And if you do that, you'll feel a lot better. The only really risk of this medication is if you take it too early. It can either not work, or it can make you kind of sick. Okay, so you just gotta wait. So when was the last time you used any heroin.
Lerone Matthis: Damn.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. So you haven't used for a while. And are you feeling withdrawal symptoms at all right now.
Michael Hoefer: Absolutely. Yeah. What do you feel in mostly
Lerone Matthis: Some exchange.
Lerone Matthis: Sweating wearing now. Oh.
Crap.
Lerone Matthis: I mean, sweating, the light and
Lerone Matthis: Oh,
Lerone Matthis: No, it's coming.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: So okay, so we should try. Yeah. After we get off this was after we get off the line. I'll put an electronic prescription for the medication. So you can pick it up and start taking it.
Michael Hoefer: And it's and, with it being a day and a half since you've had heroin and also the, the symptoms. You're having right now, it would be okay to start it and you should start feeling better.
Michael Hoefer: And the way you do it is you start off by taking about either a half tablet, which is four milligrams. They come in eight milligram Tablets. Tablets to take a half tablet every couple hours till you feel better.
Michael Hoefer: And those people will feel better somewhere between a total of eight milligrams to 16 milligrams. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And so whatever you dose, you get to where you feeling better and you feel okay just stop there.
Lerone Matthis: Okay, okay.
Michael Hoefer: Um, and then after the first 24 hours of being on it, you'll know, kind of, oh, you know, I'm somebody who needs eight or 12 or 16 of this med and then you just start taking that each morning
Michael Hoefer: And it'll help you and the things that will do for you is it'll
Michael Hoefer: Get rid of withdrawal symptoms.
Michael Hoefer: It will minimize cravings for heroin and it will also work as what we call a blocker. So basically, it'll, you know, bind to your opiate receptors in your brain.
Michael Hoefer: And if you were to use heroin or some other opiates, they'll just basically bounce right off. And you'll you won't feel anything. And most people who use will say, Well, that was a waste of time. I'm not going to do that again, you know,
Michael Hoefer: We're yeah
Michael Hoefer: And so that's that's the ways that it's helpful. It is important to know that it is a certain it is Suboxone is still a type of opiate
Michael Hoefer: Its own the same family as other opiates, but it's very unique in that it's very safe, like it's really the only opiate that you could take like people if
Michael Hoefer: It's almost impossible to overdose on it, you can take so much and it won't shut down your breathing. It also has a much less opiate side effects than anything else. So it doesn't cause constipation or testosterone changes or sedation, or things as much as other opiates do
Michael Hoefer: But, but you should know it is a type of opiates. So if you know if you when you you are going to try to stop it. You will need to go through a taper process because you will go into withdrawal like you will with other opiates. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And really the only way you can get into trouble with this medication is if you were to take this medication and then take large amounts of benzodiazepines like Xanax or Valium or whatever that is a very unsafe combination as well as if you were to drink a lot on it.
Michael Hoefer: Those are really the only two things that you got to really avoid
Michael Hoefer: Because it's not a good combination
Lerone Matthis: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right, that's a lot of information. Do you have any questions about the medication. Anything else you want to
Michael Hoefer: We want to know about it.
Lerone Matthis: Are you very thorough, I'm not
Lerone Matthis: Saying information.
Lerone Matthis: No, no, no, I'm not.
Lerone Matthis: A guy that
Lerone Matthis: I'm very thorough
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great.
Lerone Matthis: All right.
Michael Hoefer: Well, if there aren't any other questions. What I can do is we'll get off the line I can put in the prescription. I can give you a week supply of the medication right now.
Michael Hoefer: And then within the next couple days. One of our care coordinators will reach out to you by phone, and they'll talk to you and they're going to get you connected with a continuing continuity therapist and a continuity physician in our program. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And that they'll let you know kind of what the next steps are and how things go.
Lerone Matthis: Okay, okay.
Michael Hoefer: All right.
Michael Hoefer: All right, well, it's really nice meeting you tonight.
Michael Hoefer: And, you know, yeah, and good luck and take care
Lerone Matthis: All right. Thank you.
Lerone Matthis: Last question was,
Lerone Matthis: Yeah, so I would you put in the night and I will just wait to go pick it up for
Michael Hoefer: So it all depends on if the pharmacy.
Michael Hoefer: That you want to go to if they're still open.
Lerone Matthis: So let me uh yeah they open to it.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. Yes. So let me make sure that that in our computer. We have the right that they put in the right pharmacy for you, and if so, if I've heard it. Now you should hopefully be able to go pick it up because I
Michael Hoefer: Don't want you to have to feel like this all night. That would not be
Good.
Okay work.
Michael Hoefer: So they did not put in the pharmacy, so I can, I can, if you just tell me what it is. I'll find it at Google and make sure I get it in
Lerone Matthis: There is a Walgreens, and
Lerone Matthis: It was $3 on Central Avenue.
Michael Hoefer: Walgreens else or read okay and that's
Michael Hoefer: Yeah 11565 San Pablo Avenue el cerrito yes
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great. Yeah, so I'll put in that prescription right now, then you can, you know, either go over there and a little bit or call them, make sure that it's all good.
Lerone Matthis: Over there.
Michael Hoefer: And then you should be set.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, okay.
All right, you
Michael Hoefer: Take care.
Michael Hoefer: All right, bye.